Refuge prioritization project - Data filters and warehouse assumptions



We created a sampling effort file for all survey events where the species of interest could be detected. 
The sampling effort file was then merged with the observations file (separately for each species and data type) 
and 0's added for locations and events with no detections of the species of interest.

The following filters were applied:
* Only considering surveys in CA, NV and OR; for RIRA we added AZ to the range, and for WIFL we added AZ and NM 
* Only using data with correct geospatial information (Lat/Lon)
* eBird filter: Only using eBird-approved surveys (APPROVED = 1)
* eBird filter: Only considering the following survey protocol types: 'eBird - Exhaustive Area Count', 
	'eBird - Traveling Count', 'eBird - Stationary Count', 'EBIRD', 'Audubon NWR Protocol', 'EBIRD_CA', and 
	'TNC California Waterbird Count'
* Observation data consist the maximum of counts (for each species separately) for each survey event identifier 
	(this avoids so-called "group count" problems with eBird)
* BBS data constraint: only data from 1996 onward were used
* Data are then attributed with FWS region and PADUS information, and also with CA state park boundary 
	information, CDFW owned and operated lands, FWS lands approved for acquisition and FWS lands of interest
* Final warehouse filter: Only R8 data (or R8 & R2 data, for WIFL and RIRA) were used

Once the warehouse is created, the query that asks for data also executes an additional filter: region of interest.
This last filter is just an intersect with an arcGIS polygon file. Data within the polygon are returned and plotted.

The final warehouse has data from all species of interest and all data sources (eBird, BBS, CADC, secretive 
marshbird, TRBL database), and the following fields:
	SpeciesCode - unique species ID 
	Lat - Decimal latitude (wgs84)
	Lon	- Decimal longitude (wgs84)
	obsDate - Observation date, or more appropriately,date of survey (POSIXct)
	padus - Attribution from the PADUS database (one of several federal land ownership types, including types of public lands)
	caState - California state park boundary attribution 
	cdfw - CDFW land ownership attribution 
	fwsAppr - FWS land approved for acquisition?
	fwsIntStatus - FWS land of interest? If so, its status
	fwsIntName - FWS land of interest? If so, its name
	month - The month when the survey occurred
	season - The general season when survey occurred, but see below for custom season attribution
	
We apply a general season label:
	April to August [inclusive] = "S"
	October to February [incl.] = "W"
	September and March = "O"
	
But note that the warehouse has both the observation date and the month, so breeding season filters can be 
customized by species.

Need to include data source and protocol in warehouse to filter these out if needed
Evaluate multi-process approach: hurdle.
Use a logistic model for low-count species, and negbin link for more abundant species
Because in many cases all we have is presence-absence data, we should fit a logistic model and a rate model and compare results wrt refuge importance for both
We may want to collapse the data to include only one event per cell per day (so include date in wh)




